all right good afternoon welcome to
section 620a II and for those of you
want to know what that's about stay
tuned you'll find out at the end what
are we going to talk about today
reaching out to other it's reaching out
to Apple api's so the basic premise of
this talk is that you have a java
application already for the most part i
mean if you're going to be writing one
that's cool too but let's assume you
have a pure java api pure java
application that runs on our platform
and you might you know think that's cool
because Java is portable and all that
and we think that's great as well but
just by having your application run on
our system Apple's api's and services
actually reach in and extend it for you
automatically somewhat because of our
built some of our built-in features and
some of the technology we did with the
awt rewrite in top Coco however most of
them so we'll see a little bit of some
of those free extensions that you get a
little bit but also this talk is about
how your app can reach down and reach
into some of apple's ati's and get a
little bit more close to the platform as
well as discussing how to get closer to
the platform we talked about some of the
pitfalls of getting a little too close
to the platform so we're going to talk
first of all about things you get for
free you've seen some of that in a
couple of the sessions already we're
going to talk about the threading
architecture which is in my opinion
which is the one that counts since i
wrote the talk is the one thing you
really need to know about when you're
talking about getting into our api's and
we'll give you a lot of examples about
that we'll talk about launchers we'll
talk about the embedded movie you a demo
of our cocoa component will talk about
some disk recording ati's which I have
had the pleasure to discover and came
over the past few weeks up until two
o'clock this morning 12 hours ago and
even a little bit of address book
we'll have I'll also get up and do a
demo of all that code so you can
actually see that it's real and we'll
hopefully end even a little earlier than
some of the other sessions have because
I thought that this might be a good
place for us to actually spend some time
in QA getting you know into some of the
into some of the depth so things you get
for free cocoa input methods we have
because of the AWT rewrite in cocoa we
use cocoa to get to get things in
because of that we give multi-language
input for free we get in quill for free
how many of you people remember the
inkwell demo for my thing well I can't
remember what it was but it actually
works it works without any coding on
your part you can actually hook a little
pad up to your device and you get the
drivers right and inkwell will actually
do input into your into your Java app
and you haven't had to write a lot of
code for that we're not going to
demonstrate that today because of the
vagaries of disk drivers and Panther and
pre-release machine or who knows but it
is it is it is done the accessibility
implementation is the key to many of
these free services it gets you of
course accessibility but it also gets
you the applescript GUI scripting that
we talked about and have demonstrated in
some of the other talks Greg is going to
come up and actually show you more of
that in just about 30 seconds menu items
is another thing you get for free
without any effort for coding on your
part in a WT style applications you get
the services menu for absolutely for
free you get the spell checking you get
speech speaker this item kind of thing
and there's just there's a pile of
things that you actually get for free so
it's really cool to write Java to begin
with but it's even cooler to deploy it
on Mac OS 10 where it's actually part of
it it just says it's one of our it's
extensible just by being on our system
other people can use it in many ways so
without further ado let's let Greg drive
for a little while
I'm on demo this one okay did any of you
see the Java State of the Union where I
did this demo no okay bout half so I
have a little bit of this demo and I've
also added to it that you'll see in a
little bit and I'll talk a little bit
more about how i did it in some more
detail so first off what I have is just
a plain java application this is a
little different than the one I showed
you to stay the Union and I'll get to
that later there's this big area down
here I'll talk about in a second so this
is a swing application I used to say
it's pure swing but not anymore i'll get
to that in fact and it uses the brush my
look and feel and this is just standard
Java this little window to the right has
transparency and we could do things like
this and it's a little hard to see but
you could add a whole bunch of little
things this is a pure transparent window
all in pure Java code just a awt window
where I set it to a background color
that has an alpha value and then the
quartz extreme compositor takes care of
the rest and so it's pretty fun that we
have this it I also set it up that it
works as an applet and so you could see
that inside of Safari the Java brushed
metal look and feel shows up while and
this is a key point for a little later
when it's an applet it's a red
transparent window when its application
it's a great transparent window and it's
the same same darn thing you know nice
trivial simple kind of goofy
demonstration and so I'll talk a little
bit about how i did this or some ways
rather what i'm going to talk about is
how you can see that the native
integration that java has with mac OS 10
can help you write better java
applications so first off we have the
apple animating here there's a great
program on mac OS tchenka ports to buzz
one way to speed up your program is not
to have it draw a lot so one thing that
courts to bug has here is flash screen
updates when I first wrote this I was
repainting the entire transparent window
every time it was a little slow and then
I went and figured out that i could make
sure i only draw the job of parts i'm
interested in
it kind of slows things down a little
bit when courts does this but you could
make sure that you're only drawing what
you need to so some more of the native
integration that we have I'm going to
quit this and start it over so that I
can run my Apple script what I have is
an applescript I have an apple script
here that will use the mac OS 10
accessibility and Java accessibility
integration the Java API is have
accessibility where all your users can
learn about the buttons like they can
use screen readers or zoom in where it's
large if they have difficulty seeing or
some such but what's also cools the
accessibility api's are also Apple
scriptable so it uses the same thing
what you see here is its telling Java
the first window which is this window
and then it goes and it finds the button
title add image and it clicks it so the
API is pretty simple you have to enable
it in your system preferences under
universal access to get access to this
but I'm going to run this really quickly
and then I'm going to show you a little
bit more thanks Greg first I'll add the
apple logo now adding the job a logo so
this is pure Java code being Apple
scripted your program can be used now
I'll add a picture and a friend man and
lastly a picture of God now it will
start bouncing around now let's turn on
the transparency back to you Greg okay
so as you can see this is a good
integration between Java and Mac OS 10
no extra Java code is necessary if you
have custard so there is extra Java code
necessary if you write custom component
controls all the standard awt and swing
components that come from Sun have the
job of accessibility setup so necklace
time no seeum you have a custom
component you'd have to wire it up the
job of accessibility and then when it
runs on mac OS 10 a short
fine so what am I going to show you now
I really like the demos I saw of
embedding WebKit and I've even seen some
questions about it on java dev the last
two days I've been doing that and it
actually took me two days because I had
a bad Panther install but it should have
taken only an hour so here's WebKit
inside of a pure java application it's
pretty it's it's so terribly simple how
I did this it's really powerful I mean
just imagine with any Java program you
can now display any data that is visible
in a web browser so a QuickTime flash
you name it you got it I even have this
setup because I like to twist with
people's heads this is the applet
version of this Java program running and
running in the cocoa component there's
still something a little wrong yeah but
you know oh no this did not happen when
I all I'm disappointed
huh well that's no fun here we go oh
they got to now okay well you know I did
it in a day so I could show you very oh
well there we go I could show you in
very easily how I did this we have this
great component composer cocoa component
that we added to our awt this is where
its custom McIlroy's time work that's
the name code so here's the Java code
it's a cocoa component it's just a
component that you add a single view
which creates an NS view you return the
pointer to that as an int i added a
method called set URL that you just pass
a string to it this is the send message
api is a standard API defined in the
cocoa component you do some things to
set up the sizes so that it fits in
there and on the native side i have my
can you all read that yeah it's really
easy i made my own object i allocate you
just return it my object is a web view
from WebKit i just made it size 0
because Java will take care of the cocoa
component will take care of resizing it
and then when it gets a message I
translate the java string to an NS
string and then call load request on it
so it works very nice and easily um what
else was I going to show you I believe
that's all for now if you want to learn
more about Mac os10 accessibility
there's a session tomorrow morning and I
imagine they'll have more than Apple GUI
scripting and the other built-in
accessibility API is that there are more
of a real screen reader that all your
users would use thank
actually great lead-in for some of the
rest of my slides which we haven't seen
so i'll be talking a little bit more
about the kinds of stuff he was doing
right there but let's talk it just a
little bit more about that webview thing
that he was doing so as you saw it's
nearly trivial to make that happen
there's a whole talk on that tomorrow in
I don't have the time on that when it's
session 420 so please go to that if you
have specific questions about the do's
and don'ts of that in a Coco context
admittedly even though what we're going
to show you is most of that still
applies even with this fancy little
cocoa component the other thing I want
to talk about was extended apple
scripting so what we've shown you so far
is how to screw up the GUI how to strip
the stuff that comes for free with
accessibility so standard scripting
we've already handle the five common
events that every app already deals with
and in fact you get a handle on that
with the extended awt more directly so
with accessibility we get automatically
scripting as you just saw so advanced
scripting I mean if there are
applescript aficionados in this audience
then what they're kind of looking I
can't see them luckily because they'd be
looking at me a little askance because
advanced scripting has to do with
building up a dictionary of terms and
actions and properties about your
application so in greg's cases he were a
true applescript aficionado he would
have had people you know to represent
greg and scott and he would have told
the people to hop and dance and fight
and jump around he would have told him
the jump and he would have told them to
do other kinds of things so if this is
the kind of Apple script thing you want
to do then you have to learn a lot more
about Apple scripting so what happens is
that Coco offers lots of wrappers for
these nowadays they're all in NS script
something or other classes and you add
dictionaries and hang them on to your
hang them on to your
a proper the interesting thing about
cocoa is it's got a bunch of built-in
key value kinds of notions such that if
you go you know set jump height if
there's a jump height instance variable
than Coco will go and find out and
update it for you automatically now the
very interesting thing is that we've had
apple scripting at this level available
to Coco Java programmers for several
years now an incident in one of the
examples there so if you like Coco a lot
and you like Java a lot we've always
kind of steered you towards Coco Java
the glue that goes on right now between
extending applescript and the basic
technology that's in there right now is
not quite unraveled enough for us to get
to this more advanced level 44 pure job
for swing phase programs I'm not saying
it's impossible it's just I didn't I
wasn't able to unravel in the past two
weeks so there may be hope for it though
that's just kind of a caveat on what we
were what we've done so far let me talk
about threading architecture now this is
the one thing you need to remember at
the end of this talk so what's the
thread I'm going to assume that all of
you have sat in front of at least jdb or
hopefully even GV and have seen you know
a back trace of your program running if
you've seen a back trace then you know
what a thread is if you've seen multiple
threads you obviously know what multiple
threads are so here's just an example
back tre so I took out a few frames so
what's the fridge it's just basic review
it's a from the kernels of you pointed
to set it's a set of registers and the
stack that goes with the flow control it
gets scheduled and all that processes
start with one threads is unix the first
thread spawns others if they're needed
and on a Macintosh for a GUI application
there are always lots of threads running
the key thing about Java is that
the first thread on any mac OS
application the first thread has special
duties because the first thread
initializes the GUI libraries underneath
everything whether that's was its carbon
or whether that's Koko's this has always
been true we have had to stand on our
heads in 131 in order to not kick off
carbon at the wrong time in the past we
are not standing on our head anymore in
the 141 stuff we are actually we took
the bull by the horns and actually said
we have to start things up a little
differently so let's talk about that a
little bit in more detail if you have
code that you've gotten launch code that
you've gone from somewhere it just looks
like this you you gather are your
arguments you you find this VM thing Jay
and I create vm you then once you have a
vm you go off and you find your main
class you get all these fields or method
descriptors and whatnot you invoke it it
goes off it does something sometimes you
know it you know creates a jframe which
brings up your app and then the main
thread just returns so on Apple however
we have to do things a little bit
differently what we do is we take these
steps and we move them over into another
thread and then of course we have to put
a little bit of code back there respond
the thread and to get it going and then
the key element there is that very first
thread has to do this thing called
running the run loop so maybe you know
what that's about maybe you don't you'll
learn a little bit more about it in just
a moment so as I said before the very
first thread has the duty of you know
getting the you know the vm started or
gathering arguments and stuff and
running the run loop it will if it's
done properly spawn up a second thread
which goes off launches find your main
kicks in your main and hangs out there
as long as you want as long as that
first thread does something interesting
gathers I or
whatever you're going to have a second
thread if it's got gooey if it's
launched a jframe then there's a thread
that we've created on your behalf which
we call the event the awt event queue
thread the that first thread if I get
named it explicitly we call the app kit
main thread and of course there could be
other threads in your program I know
that from the vm perspective the vm has
a few threads going on telling you
what's what helping helping make java
really happen and then you have your own
thread as well so the duties of that
first thread that run loop is a data
structure and what it has is a number of
inputs inputs like the keyboard the
mouse different kinds of i/o
communications to other helper processes
and things like that they manage that in
a run loop and for every input that's in
that run loop there's a handler for it
more or lessen when you run the run Luke
you're basically saying grab an input
and dispatch it to the handler so in our
case for example if you get some kind of
mouse event or something the awt peer
implementation takes that input from as
a cocoa of that and transforms it and
sticks it over onto a cue that's read by
the by day to be T of n Q thread so
that's how threading fred's get set up
and run on every Mac os10 application so
we don't really care of that second
thread that just started a jframe goes
away but if you had just taken raw code
from some other system over and that
first thread went away and guess what
there's no thread running any run loop
and so your UI is still kind of hanging
out there but there's no input ever
going to go to it so that's what happens
when you just take straight code that
deals with libraries and getting stuff
started and try to port it directly to a
Mac os10 system so that whole business
we call launchers so we have actually q
standard mechanisms on the system
already we have the one that underlies
use urban Java and use have been java H
you know there's
one little magic program that does all
the little duties it oh the second one
is our launcher stub that we set up if
you use jar bundler or if you use xcode
to build an application then there's a
little tiny little tee program that get
started it's found in your contents Mac
OS whatever your app name is and that
knows how to do lots of stuff including
this little thread business the launcher
the launcher also knows how to read the
info.plist and you set up those
arguments and pick which vm you run i'm
not going to talk about picking VMs
right now it's it's a little dicey the
the jni code that gets everything
started and gets run is of course in
your Java VM framework so some of you
however are going to be bound and
determined to write a launcher we still
advise you to try not to but if you have
existing thread a legacy code and you
know not everybody comes here with pure
Java code some of it actually glues down
into sockets or glues it into other
kinds of stuff and it's just got to be
there if you have sorted the legacy code
if you have say properties with change
on a per launch basis different maximum
memory sizes different attributes for
graphic state things like that that's a
kind of a semi-literate reason to not
you live with our standard launcher
scheme if you have a non-standard main
for example you know there's no rule
once you launch your own vm that you
have to go thru static main that's just
a Java a user been Java rule it's not
it's not a hard and fast rule if you
have any other reason I know there's
somebody out here in the audience who I
won't name but has so many reasons he
can't explain them to me why they have
to have their own launcher
so we figured that we might as well give
you some example code to get you started
because it is a little bit of a pain so
Ted jus Civic who helped give an
excellent talk yesterday has written a
little example of that and it's on the
web and the place that normal examples
are at developer apple com Java go to
the examples page and find out please
start with that code it's good it works
it takes you through all those steps
that are tedious but necessary I'd like
to talk now a little bit about something
that's also this one's not actually out
on the web this is in the developer
examples it's part of what is now the
Java SDK accept that and the most recent
release we somehow forgot to include it
so it's in previous releases it will
come back but at the NS movies you
example what that does is that show you
shows you how to embed cocoa components
now Greg just got up there into the
whirlwind tour of cocoa components and
I'll give you one maybe just as fast
maybe a little bit longer a little bit
later but the basic idea is that as you
know awt peers are built upon Coco's app
kit we have provided EA to the key cocoa
component in order for you to play
around with your own views or somebody
else's views that they've written in
koko already this is not quite the base
it's not really the subclass of the
peers but it's sort of a peer for the
rest of you it's not appear for us it's
appear for the rest of you so the cocoa
component ranges for all kinds of stuff
to happen it feels those events it
paints it paints on the App kit main
thread and you as a sub class or just
implement a few methods in order to
interact with it and it's very simple to
use as you as you saw for that the
architecture is there to get messages
from one side to the other and as I said
the we have example code out there but I
thought I'd actually show you how simple
it is
so again basic idea here is that we have
a job up here we have a cocoa view you
need to keep them related so the Java
parts going to sit in the Java painting
hierarchy and secretly over on the App
get side there's going to be a similar
hierarchy going on as well so we have to
keep those two things related from the
Java viewpoint you subclass cocoa
component and you load your little
native library and you create your
little special view so Coco component
actually called that method create NSU
you don't even have to worry about that
you have to add some value to it so in
this case we're going to define three
constants in the movie of you case we're
going to give them a URL to load tell
them to play tell them to stop and these
going to be linked to buttons so when
the buttons hit and ask it to play or
ask it to stop they're going to send
this little message with this little
integer value across and in the play and
stop value no extra values in the set
URL we're actually going to send the
string across so that's pretty easy from
the Java perspective on the cocoa side
you have a little bit more complicated
class you saw that aw message class that
Greg described earlier it's the same
implementation in this case it feels
that message ID and does a switch on the
three values that could have here you
see the cocoa I don't know how many
people have seen Objective C syntax
before I'm not going to give them any
tutorial on it but trust me that it's
apart from the syntax is very much like
Java so in this case the NS movie alec
is going to go allocate a little
instance of that guy and then you're
going to initialize it with the
following method in it with URL
mumbai reference i think is the actual
method to the out to thee to the
initializer and the URL we give it is a
is a string we actually take a string
and turn it into a URL object and the by
reference i can't remember with the doc
said on that so that's very easy you
create or you set the movie you actually
create a movie and set it to the movie
view the via the trickiest part for many
people is writing the jni code you know
so you got to have a jni code in order
to create that NS view and here we have
the cocoa movie view that was the
subclass we just did we alloc init it
tell the movie to go ahead and start
showing and then return that pointer
back to be managed automatically for you
on the other side that's pretty simple
so simple we met an example you all have
all read it and i'm just been boring you
up to this point so this is stuff you
haven't seen before let's talk about
disk recording for just a moment a disk
recording comes in two frameworks it
comes in a sea-based straight framework
just recording we're using plain see
carbon like see you can have c or dr la
dee da dee da dee da if you like
programming and carbon then i'm not why
i'm not sure why you're in this room but
there's also an objective-c framework
for this as well so you don't have to
program at the CF level but if you don't
like objective c you can there's also an
objective-c base disk recording UI
framework now this is actually very
interesting both frameworks use a run
loop to drive the work and drive
notifications so you basically set up a
little input on your run loop tell it to
start working and then notifications are
sent to you when it does its thing and
you don't know how it's doing it is it
spinning another thread is it talking to
another process you don't know and
frankly you don't care what you do know
is that those notifications is where you
interact with
this so what is true is true was true in
131 if you try to interact directly with
the GUI that the framework that that we
that the aw uses to implement spears if
you interact with it directly you are
treading on very thin ice because the
things we have to do to own those pure
classes and keep track of what's going
on well we do what we have to do and
sometimes if you go try triggering gooey
actions independent of what we're doing
we get into all kinds of crossing
crossing problems I won't mention locks
by name right here but if you've ever
tried any of this stuff I think you know
what I mean nevertheless I had to ask
myself how hard would it be to at least
add a burn button to the two that move
you so let's talk about burn logic for a
moment so what do you need to do to burn
a CD you have to get what's known as the
device that actual CD thing you can tell
it to open the floppy tray close that
you can ask whether there's needy and or
not all kinds of fun stuff to do you get
a device and a folder to burn you set up
this notification center like I've
talked about you start to burn then you
process the notifications no big deal
and then finally afterwards you clean up
so just to make it very clear what we
need to do in this case is you're
sitting in the awt side and you need to
send that message to go burn a movie it
needs to go over to the app kit main
thread and actually trigger those
actions to trigger work on the AWT or
trigger work on the app kit side on the
main event loop so as you process
notifications however you actually want
to give feedback to the AWT side and so
you have to use J&I methods to call in
and just set up set up some work
so let me jump to a demo right now
there's one other thing I thought was in
my slides that didn't happen yet so i'll
talk about that directly if we could
switch to demo machine too you've done
it very nice so in this demo what I'm
also going to try to do is show you a
little bit of Xcode now it has been said
that xcode does not natively deal with
Java build targets and things like that
but well that's true and it still
supports all the jam based targets and
stuff that have existed you know for
past several years so I actually started
with a with an old project and converted
it and then said well maybe there's
secret stuff going on so I'm just going
to throw away that and start from
scratch so I actually started from
scratch and rebuild the demo that that
is out there in the developer examples
case and it's all worked except one
little glitch I won't even tell you
about that let's look let's show you
let's show you one thing first of all we
take one more detour let me launch
address book you'll notice that I've
actually set the address book up as me
I've set me up as me oops that's just
for reference so now it's sure the cocoa
component so if you haven't seen this
GUI before now you do I've actually set
it up and sort of full screen mode a
little bit because it's going to
facilitate something in just a moment
let's let's find address book for
example so notice that this whole view
switched to be the find results now this
button lets you pull up an all-in-one
kind of editor window and the virtue of
that window here is that you can flip
between your address between your find
results very easily take a look at
what's going on notice that if I go back
and start taking
other items then that top window
reflects what's going on on the left and
in this case the find results address
book find results drive that list up
there so the first part is in my
application what I'm going to have is a
little status field and it's going to
call a giant I routine to get the first
name of me and set the status field up
with that with a welcome message with
with my with the me name on the Jana on
the hard part you know see the diving
into the Apple API is right there now if
that's not visible I can zoom it in a
little bit ourselves that visible in the
back seems to be all right so how hard
is it to get knees first name you have
an address book factory you get the
shared address book there's one and only
address book and you ask a who yass good
for me you send the me message to the
result of that and it brings back a navy
person object which is just a big fancy
dictionary big fancy property list so
you ask it for the first name property
you get back a string and you return
that first name turned into a Java a
java string and that I won't that's a
utility up about here takes a string ja
enough strings or unicode characters so
basically we we get the length make sure
it's within range and then you get
unicode characters out of it filling up
this array first with unicode characters
then you make a new string and return it
no big problem let's actually show this
show this app running so you'll see
what's going on so here it is there's my
name right there and we got that by
fetching the address book on launch and
just to personalize a little bit now
what this is what I've turn this in and
sort of my personal movie viewer
application I have my movies on my ipod
and so I just plug the ipod into here
and when I'm done with this application
I'll just switch over the ipod and click
an application it'll you know have a
little custom little application to show
the movies that I also hold on there so
for example we see this coming along and
we have some photos that I made when I
was on vacation over in the Greek
islands so the first one is a pink
Cadillac of all things so you know you
get the idea you get to start and stop
the movie and fun thing here is of
course you get to burn so I'm going to
press burn oops we have some status
right away that shows up it says we have
no media so let's go ahead and put some
media in now what I'm going to do is in
this case I'm going to let the finder
intercept the media insert we're going
to let the finder say we don't really
know what to do with it we're just going
to leave it around then this program is
going to come up and capture that and
burn so what we do is we ignore it from
the finders perspective when we try
burning it again and voila it's
preparing the disc it's writing the disc
it's closing the diff actually I'm not
quite sure how all how it happens all
that fast because the verify step takes
an extraordinary lengths of time from my
perspective
and we have a CD with the Greek movies
burned on with the Greek Greek movies
burned onto it let me show you a couple
other things first of all if we turn on
this funny thing called character
palette you see this icon show up over
here now here I am in my eighth of ET
view voila look at that that menu item
magically appeared during the middle of
my running app my running applet when
I'm a running app that was not there
before it'll go away if I turn it off
now what does that palette do for this
app actually not a whole lot if you're I
added this funny little text window just
so that we could show that if you were
really interested in adding say Cyrillic
alphabetic characters to your app put
some chives in there but in any case
Steph input channel was actually
important to you or your customers you
should know that you haven't written a
line of code to get it to happen so I
just think that's one of the fabulous
kinds of built-in things that we give
you that we give you for free let me let
me actually show you some of those code
steps while we do that
so another so I have a little so let's
find everywhere I've written disc
burning into the app I actually put
numbers on them so that we could
actually see the steps a little bit more
carefully so here's just burning one we
add a button that says movie burnt movie
view go ahead and burn whenever I click
click that and that's the buttons the
buttons action second step is as we saw
before to send a that's the second one
sorry to send the message across to the
other side not very hard third step we
switch on burn movie and if we selected
a movie we go ahead and say do burn on
it now take a look at this little bit of
code right here what we've taken as
input is file colon slash slash la dee
da dee da dee da something dot mov what
we want is the file stuff stripped off
and actually the whole last component
we're actually going to burn the
directory that contains the movie in it
so in cocoa to get the last half of the
string or to strip off the file colon
slash slash you say substring from index
to get everything but the last path
component you say string by deleting
life path components so in that one
little line we've actually stripped that
URL down to a directory path we tell we
tell ourselves to burn it now this is
actually not a lot of code what do we
need to do you find out all the devices
that are on the system this code isn't
totally robust because there might not
there might be there might not be an
object at index zero but we just grabbed
the first one we acquire what's known as
a media reservation go to the dr
documentation to figure out what that
means so that just means we grab the
device we ask is the media present if
not we send a message back we asked if
the media's blank because they could
have added something
in there again we send status and
release the reservations assuming we've
got media we've got the device
everything's going we allocate a burner
object we set up the writing information
and we set up this notification center
and we tell it to go ahead and start
burning so the burns come in you get a
property list the dictionary of the
results you get like the current status
you say is this thing done and you send
status back to their side release it
your release the burner certain statuses
have a percentage so preparing it's
writing and all the sorts of stuff we
get the percentage and and quantify back
into an integer and send it back so
that's actually not a lot of code I
actually wrote this routine twice this
routine i wrote between one and two in
the morning let me show you what it used
to look like in the core foundation
style code we have good device you get
the array you get the count you get the
value with the index you return it you
have to turn that string into FS ref I
actually did the character stripping and
stuff in this guy you have to ask
whether it's reserved you have to go get
some status look up some dictionary
values luckily I didn't have to write
all this code I stole it from the disc
burning example here's that callback
notification routine that takes those
strings and turns them into useful error
messages and sends them back across so
any case this is an entire file it's
about four times as long as the
objective-c stuff I'm really happy to
say that there is a good cocoa code to
make that simpler
let me let me show you Xcode in a little
bit of let me show let me show it to you
in action a little bit first of all
let's go back to those find results so I
had that funny weird text field and I
don't really like that so let's go ahead
and rebuild the project so as we rebuild
the project we will get some errors and
warnings show up so we get all these
funny errors and warnings now what are
they about well it's because of one in
the morning I didn't convert these
constants in two constants like that so
if I want to find out what that constant
would be all I have to do is option
double click on it and if the whole help
system were here we would have had
something pop up there but that didn't
quite happen let's pop it up by hand and
see whether or not we could find this
constant
so in fact it's not too far away so
there's actually stat if it turns out
that each of these guys have a
counterpart without the k that shows up
as an nsstring directly so I can get rid
of all these warnings by getting rid of
these caves it's what it boils down to
so I won't necessarily do that all the
way through but let's go ahead and do
this again you'll see that we end up
with fewer warning messages this time so
we've seen the documentation window
sometimes I have found it useful to
actually pull up the entire build window
that you may have seen remember from the
project builder instantiation but in any
case sometimes link errors and other
things are best resolved using the
standard build window so let's see
whether or not we can run this again and
in this case let's pick this guy so at
the beginning I said that I tell you
what that IE stood for turns out that on
some motorcycles they have model numbers
and in this case this happened to be my
latest toy it happens to be a monster
620 ie so I just decided I had to call
it IE for whatever reason so motorcycles
are great to look at when they're when
they're not moving at all but of course
the reason nicer see in action
sir I did it is its last night
I
captive audience
[Music]
is actually illegal to lift your back
knee off the ground so luckily the
resolution on this isn't very good for
that but you know you got to be really
careful when you're out on public
roadway so anyway that's it for the demo
I think I've shown most of what I needed
to see foot back to slide click apply my
clicker and actually the address book
that's where that slide when I knew I
had an extra slide in there the address
book ap eyes are as I showed you what I
tried to do in this talk is is is give
you a sample of what you can try to get
into nope I need to go back to this demo
I'm sorry I have to show you one other
piece of code back here there's also a
nice little piece of code here it is
now this is super succinct this is run a
setup panel to go pick your device set
the speed such as multi-session sets all
kinds of options on the nice little
panel and when you've done setting up
the panel you hit ok it comes back and
then you pop up this burn progress panel
and tell it to go run it's very simple
and it doesn't work it's a shame but it
is because the AWT needs to own things
needs to own locks that's going on over
on the app kit side and this burn panel
just gets very confused so there are
some things you can do and there's some
things you can't do you guys have to be
careful about what you try to do because
you want your apps to run for a long
time I guess that's the best best
message I have here all right let's go
to let's go to some Q&A well we still
have a couple of the talks I'm sorry the
WebKit api's tomorrow we have a feedback
session tomorrow morning in the marina
and we have our performance talk of
course tomorrow afternoon which has a
lot of great details about what's really
going on with the processors and what
we've done help make that happen
you